## Projects

### Surveillance Alert System based on Image Captioning using Deep Learning Approaches
In the field of image analytics, semantic segmentation can determine the objects in an image, but fails to explain the relationship between these objects. Automatic caption generation can help to identify these events and be used to alert users to take action. Our team tackled this challenge by implementing an Image Captioning system using CNN-LSTM architecture and compared results with GPT2-generated captions. The training dataset was from Kaggle and contained 8092 images from Flickr with 5 captions as the target label. To address the lack of surveillance-related images, we manually added 568 surveillance images and captions. The resulting Image Captioning model generated captions that were used to send alerts to stakeholders if the captions contained red-flag words.

[Code](#) | [Medium Article](#)

### Enhanced Trip Advisor Recommendation System
This was my final project during my Fall semester at UT Austin for my Analytics for Unstructured Data course. We scraped 4000 reviews and descriptions using Selenium off the Trip Advisor Website for 400 destinations across the globe. We calculated the similarity between the reviews and descriptions provided by the business owners/TripAdvisor. Then we performed sentiment analysis on the reviews and provided more accurate descriptions using topic modeling. The tools used included Selenium, spaCy, Vader, and NLTK.

[Code & Report](#)

### Index Fund Using Integer Programming
In this project, we designed an Index fund to track the NASDAQ-100 index using an integer program and a linear program to pick stocks and allocate weights respectively. The performance of the index fund was evaluated for different values of m and compared to the NASDAQ-100 index. The goal was to find a practical and cost-effective way to create an index fund that mirrors the broad market.

[Code](#) | [Report](#)

### Car Brands Consumer Perception Analysis
In this project, we analyzed user-generated content from the Edmunds car review forum to understand consumer perceptions of car brands. We used natural language processing techniques and visualized the results with a Multidimensional Scaling plot. Our analysis revealed the top 10 car brands, the attributes associated with those brands, and the most desired brand from the discussions. The insights from this project can inform marketing strategies for car brands.

[Code & Report](#)
